User-facing changelog for 4.1 (#15648)
jupyterlab/jupyterlab: CHANGELOG.md

## v4.1

### Custom CSS

Jupyterlab now supports automatic loading of custom CSS.

> Themes are the recommended method for customising the JupyterLab look and feel,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Themes are the recommended way for customizing the JupyterLab look and feel,
```

while custom CSS is intended for minor personal adjustments.

To opt-in start jupyterlab with `--custom-css` flag.

> The location for the `custom.css` is documented the section on [customizing the user interface](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/interface_customization.html#custom-css).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The location of the `custom.css` file is documented in the section on [customizing the user interface](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/interface_customization.html#custom-css).
```

```{note}
`custom.css` is also available in Jupyter Notebook;
while similar selectors can be used for components shared between JupyterLab 4.1 and Jupyter Notebook 7.0,
a different set of selectors was used in the Notebook 6 and older.
Users with the custom CSS file using the selectors from legacy Notebook versions

> will need to update them and note that tutorials may refer to the selectors for the old Notebook versions.

Reviewer: Maybe we can leave a note to encourage users to open a post on Discourse if they have trouble updating?

Reviewer: We can also just leave it like this and see if users open issues or not.

```

### Diagrams in Markdown

> Matching GitHub-Flavoured Markdown, a support for diagrams represented with [Mermaid](https://github.com/mermaid-js/mermaid) was added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Matching GitHub-Flavoured Markdown, JupyterLab 4.1 now supports [Mermaid](https://github.com/mermaid-js/mermaid) diagrams.
```

To create a mermaid diagram use the `mermaid` language specifier for a code block in a markdown cell or document, for example:

~~~
```mermaid
flowchart LR

A[Hard] -->|Text| B(Round)
B --> C{Decision}
C -->|One| D[Result 1]
C -->|Two| E[Result 2]
```
~~~

which renders as:

<img alt="Rendered Mermaid diagram going from left to right with modern look; the diagram contains blueish square node with text Hard pointing to round square node with text Round; over the arrow connecting the two nodes there is a word Text; the second node further connects to a rhombus-shaped node with text Decision which then connects to two further nodes, Result 1 and Result 2." src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/krassowski/jupyterlab/changelog-4.1/docs/source/getting_started/changelog_assets/4.1-merimad-diagram.png" class="jp-screenshot">

### Inline Completer

JupyterLab now supports completion presented as ghost text in the cell and file editors,

> enabling multi-line completions such as those generated by large language models.

Reviewer: This could be helpful to folks searching for keywords like `copilot`:

```suggestion
enabling multi-line completions such as those generated by large language models (like GitHub Copilot).
```

Author: I committed this suggestion but I was a bit on the fence here because even in jupyter-ai we will not interface with GitHub Copilot itself as it is not a publicly documented API (at least was not the last time I looked). Maybe we should use a more generic "GPT-based copilots" which would also avoid touching trademarks?

Reviewer: > more generic "GPT-based copilots" which would also avoid touching trademarks?

Sounds good :+1: 

The idea was more to give a sense for what "inline completer" means to the broader crowd, who has very likely heard about GitHub Copilot, or just the term "copilot".

> The suggestions for completions are provided by plugins implementing ``IInlineCompletionProvider`` API;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The suggestions are provided by plugins implementing the ``IInlineCompletionProvider`` API;
```

by default a single provider which uses kernel history is available.

<img alt="In a code cell with `def fac` content a ghost text containing a suggestion representing further code of factorial function is shown; over the code cell there is a floating widget allowing to accept the suggestion and iterate between alternative suggestions" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/krassowski/jupyterlab/changelog-4.1/docs/source/getting_started/changelog_assets/4.1-inline-completer.png" class="jp-screenshot">

The suggestions can be invoked as-you-type or manually using a configurable shortcut (by default <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>\\</kbd>).

> The default keyboard shortcuts are by displayed in the small widget shown when hover over the ghost suggestion:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default keyboard shortcuts are displayed in the small widget shown when hovering over the ghost suggestion:
```

- <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>End</kbd> - accept suggestion
- <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>[</kbd> - previous suggestion
- <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>]</kbd> - next suggestion

To enable the inline suggestions based on the kernel history, go to Settings → Inline Completer → History provider → check the "enabled" checkbox.

> Inline Completer is considered experimental, please share feedback!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Inline Completer API is still considered experimental and may be subject to changes, please share feedback!
```

### Keyboard navigation improvements

Numerous improvements to keyboard navigation with focus on accessibility and usability are included in this release:
- the notebook cells now retain focus
- the focus can now be moved beyond the active notebook
- the toolbars can now be navigated using arrow keys

### Execution History in Notebook

The code from previously executed cells can be used to populate empty cells,
allowing to iterate on code from previous cells or even sessions

> (depending on how specific kernel stores history).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(depending on how kernels store history).
```

Author: ```suggestion
(depending on how a specific kernel stores history).
```

I think this distinction that different kernels may store it differently (there might be even option to configure this in IPython for ipykernel I think) is better expressed by singular with emphasis on _specific_.

Reviewer: ok makes sense :+1:

To cycle between history items press <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>Arrow Up</kbd> and  <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>Arrow Down</kbd>.

To enable execution history, go to Settings → Notebook → check the "Kernel history access" checkbox.

This feature was already available in the console in previous releases; it only works with kernels supporting execution history requests.
To clear the execution history consult the documentation of the kernel you are using (e.g. IPython/ipykernel).

### Opening Files from Tracebacks

Paths to code files detected in the tracebacks returned by kernels on execution error are now turned into links.
These links will open the corresponding file for edition (if these are in the jupyter root directory)
or open a read-only preview (if the file is outside of the root directory and the active kernel supports the debugger).

<img alt="A link to the file with definition of imported module is shown in the traceback" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/krassowski/jupyterlab/changelog-4.1/docs/source/getting_started/changelog_assets/4.1-traceback-links.png" class="jp-screenshot">

### Error Indicator in the Table of Contents

> When cell fails during execution an error indicator will be displayed by the corresponding heading,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a cell fails during execution an error indicator will be displayed by the corresponding heading,
```

increasing awareness of the notebook state and enabling users to quickly navigate to the cell which requires attention.

<img alt="Error indicator in the shape of a triangle with exclamation sign (using ⚠ UTF character) shown next to one of the heading in the table of contents panel" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/krassowski/jupyterlab/changelog-4.1/docs/source/getting_started/changelog_assets/4.1-toc-error-indicator.png" class="jp-screenshot">

### Plugin Manager

Individual plugins can now be disabled or enabled from a new Plugin Manager user interface.
Each extension is composed of one or more plugins, and plugins form the basis of JupyterLab itself,
thus the plugin manager enables more extensive customization of the JupyterLab experience.

<img alt="An example search result in the plugin extension listing" src="https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_images/plugin-manager-search-notebook.png" class="jp-screenshot">

This feature is intended for advanced users and documented in depth in the [documentation](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/extensions.html#managing-plugins-with-plugin-manager).

> Administrators may want to [lock specific plugins](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/extensions.html#locking-and-unlocking-plugins) if they are required for any reason; this will prevent users from disabling the plugins via Plugin Manager and remote API calls. The Plugin Manager itself can be [disabled using CLI](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/extensions.html#enabling-and-disabling-extensions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Administrators may want to [lock specific plugins](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/extensions.html#locking-and-unlocking-plugins) if they are required for any reason; this will prevent users from disabling the plugins via Plugin Manager and remote API calls. The Plugin Manager itself can be [disabled using the CLI](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/extensions.html#enabling-and-disabling-extensions).
```

### Virtual Scrollbar for Notebook (windowed mode)

The windowed notebook received an optional scrollbar delineating the active cell and selected cells,
while allowing to quickly jump to a cell of a given number.

<img alt="Virtual scrollbar shown on the right side of notebook" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/krassowski/jupyterlab/changelog-4.1/docs/source/getting_started/changelog_assets/4.1-virtual-scrollbar.png" class="jp-screenshot">

To enable this virtual scrollbar go to Settings → Notebook → Windowing mode, choose "full" and click on a hamburger icon (≡) which will appear in the toolbar of the Notebook.

Virtual scrollbar is considered experimental, please share feedback!

### Notifications

> JupyterLab 3.6 added a notification centre which so far was only used for announcements and version update notifications (both opt-in).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JupyterLab 3.6 added a notification center which so far was only used for announcements and version update notifications (both opt-in).
```

JupyterLab 4.1 adds two notifications to guide users in potentially confusing situations:

> - when user attempts to save a read-only document a transient notification suggesting using "save as" is displayed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- when a user attempts to save a read-only document a transient notification suggesting using "save as" is displayed
```

> - when user attempts to execute a cell before a low-starting kernel has initialized a notification is shown to indicate that the cell cannot be yet executed (this is opt-in and needs to be enabled in settings)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- when a user attempts to execute a cell before a low-starting kernel has initialized a notification is shown to indicate that the cell cannot be yet executed (this is opt-in and needs to be enabled in settings)
```

## v4.1

### Custom CSS

Jupyterlab now supports automatic loading of custom CSS.
Themes are the recommended way for customizing the JupyterLab look and feel,
while custom CSS is intended for minor personal adjustments.

To opt-in start jupyterlab with `--custom-css` flag.
The location of the `custom.css` file is documented in the section on [customizing the user interface](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/interface_customization.html#custom-css).

```{note}
`custom.css` is also available in Jupyter Notebook;
while similar selectors can be used for components shared between JupyterLab 4.1 and Jupyter Notebook 7.0,

> a different set of selectors was used in the Notebook 6 and older.

Author: It's against https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/4.0.x/developer/contributing.html#writing-style

> a different set of selectors was used in the Notebook 6 and older.

Author: taking the other part of the suggestion though:

```suggestion
a different set of selectors was used in Notebook 6 and older versions.
```

> a different set of selectors was used in the Notebook 6 and older.

Reviewer 2: … although this in turn violates the style guideline above by using the passive voice.

> a different set of selectors was used in the Notebook 6 and older.

Author: Thanks, I committed your other suggestion.

Users with the custom CSS file using the selectors from legacy Notebook versions
will need to update them and note that tutorials may refer to the selectors for the old Notebook versions.
```

### Diagrams in Markdown

Matching GitHub-Flavoured Markdown, JupyterLab 4.1 now supports [Mermaid](https://github.com/mermaid-js/mermaid) diagrams.
To create a mermaid diagram use the `mermaid` language specifier for a code block in a markdown cell or document, for example:

~~~
```mermaid
flowchart LR

A[Hard] -->|Text| B(Round)
B --> C{Decision}
C -->|One| D[Result 1]
C -->|Two| E[Result 2]
```
~~~

which renders as:

<img alt="Rendered Mermaid diagram going from left to right with modern look; the diagram contains blueish square node with text Hard pointing to round square node with text Round; over the arrow connecting the two nodes there is a word Text; the second node further connects to a rhombus-shaped node with text Decision which then connects to two further nodes, Result 1 and Result 2." src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/krassowski/jupyterlab/changelog-4.1/docs/source/getting_started/changelog_assets/4.1-merimad-diagram.png" class="jp-screenshot">

> ### Inline Completer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Inline completer
```

JupyterLab now supports completion presented as ghost text in the cell and file editors,

> enabling multi-line completions such as those generated by large language models (like GitHub Copilot).

Author: ```suggestion
enabling multi-line completions such as those generated by large language models (like GPT-based copilots).
```

Previous discussion in https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyterlab/pull/15648#discussion_r1457275857

> enabling multi-line completions such as those generated by large language models (like GPT-based copilots).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
allowing generative AI models to provide multi-line completions.
```

OpenAI asserts ownership of the name "GPT", and "CoPilot" is a trademark of Microsoft.

Author: But copilot lowercase might be ok? Do you have a source on GPT being a trademark?

Reviewer 2: "Copilot" has been used for ~100 years in aviation, but in generative AI terms, it seems vendor-specific. https://openai.com/brand says, 'The "OpenAI" name, the OpenAI logo, the "ChatGPT" and “GPT” brands, and other OpenAI trademarks, are property of OpenAI.' OpenAI's [GPT trademark application](https://tsdr.uspto.gov/#caseNumber=97733259&caseSearchType=US_APPLICATION&caseType=DEFAULT&searchType=statusSearch) was filed on December 27, 2022, and is "under examination" today. I'm biased as an employee of a company that makes large language models, but I don't think any one company's LLM-related intellectual property (irrespective of trademark approval status) should be in Jupyter's docs.

Reviewer: > This is why in a previous iteration I suggested "GPT-based copilots" over "GitHub Copilot" suggested by Jeremy)

Yes, the original suggestion was to have the word "copilot" in the changelog, because this is what most users have heard of, and also what they used when requesting the feature: https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyterlab/issues/14267

The high number of :+1: suggests folks come to the repo and search for "copilot":

![image](https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyterlab/assets/591645/dc554fb8-0e97-44dd-8842-afd6b485e2e3)

Author: Thanks for the reference on "GPT" trademark claim from OpenAI. It is interesting to see if their application will be accepted, especially because I would argue this is a generic term for a family of models. For anyone interested further, there is a section in Wiki on this: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#Brand_issues

> Relatedly, OpenAI has applied to the [United States Patent and Trademark Office](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Patent_and_Trademark_Office) (USPTO) to seek domestic [trademark registration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trademark_registration) for the term “GPT” in the field of AI.[[71]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-:5-71) OpenAI sought to expedite handling of its application, but the USPTO declined that request in April 2023.[[75]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-:6-75) In May 2023, the USPTO responded to the application with a determination that "GPT" was both descriptive and generic.[[76]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-76) As of November 2023, OpenAI continues to pursue its argument through the available processes. Regardless, failure to obtain a registered U.S. trademark does not preclude some level of common-law trademark rights in the U.S.,[[77]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-77) and/or trademark rights in other countries.[[78]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-78)
>
> For any given type or scope of trademark protection in the U.S., OpenAI would need to establish that the term is actually “[distinctive](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trademark_distinctiveness)” to their specific offerings in addition to being a broader technical term for the kind of technology. Some media reports suggested that OpenAI may be able to obtain trademark registration based indirectly on the fame of its GPT-based [chatbot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chatbot) product, [ChatGPT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ChatGPT),[[75]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-:6-75)[[79]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-79) for which OpenAI has separately sought protection (and which it has sought to enforce more strongly).[[80]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-80) **Other reports have indicated that registration for the bare term “GPT” seems unlikely to be granted,[[71]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-:5-71)[[81]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-:7-81) as it is used frequently as a common term to refer simply to AI systems that involve generative pre-trained transformers.[[3]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-:4-3)[[82]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-82)[[83]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-83)[[84]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-84)** In any event, to whatever extent exclusive rights in the term may occur the U.S., others would need to avoid using it for similar products or services in ways likely to cause confusion.[[81]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-:7-81)[[85]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-85) If such rights ever became broad enough to implicate other well-established uses in the field, the trademark doctrine of descriptive fair use could still preserve some room to continue non-brand-related usage.[[86]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generative_pre-trained_transformer#cite_note-86)

But yeah, happy to not include this in here if this raises an objection :)

> I'm biased as an employee of a company that makes large language models, but I don't think any one company's LLM-related intellectual property (irrespective of trademark approval status) should be in Jupyter's docs.

I believe we agree on this point, the question is whether this particular term represents "any one company's LLM-related intellectual property" or just a generic term as introduced to scholarly community by scholarly means and simultaneously developed into a commercial product (ChatGPT).

The suggestions can be invoked as-you-type or manually using a configurable shortcut (by default <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>\\</kbd>).
The default keyboard shortcuts are displayed in the small widget shown when hovering over the ghost suggestion:
- <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>End</kbd> - accept suggestion
- <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>[</kbd> - previous suggestion
- <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>]</kbd> - next suggestion

To enable the inline suggestions based on the kernel history, go to Settings → Inline Completer → History provider → check the "enabled" checkbox.

The Inline Completer API is still considered experimental and may be subject to changes, please share feedback!

### Keyboard navigation improvements

Numerous improvements to keyboard navigation with focus on accessibility and usability are included in this release:

> - the notebook cells now retain focus

Reviewer 2: Under what circumstances do notebook cells now retain focus when they didn't before?

Author: Almost every, especially when switching to command mode and all actions associated with it. Previously focus always reverted to notebook nice. We can probably just link to related blog post rather than explain in detail here as the audience for whom it is relevant will understand from these brief notes

Author: I added link to the blogpost below, it explains it all in much more detail.

> - the focus can now be moved beyond the active notebook

Reviewer 2: … to what? Another notebook? Some other element?

Author: Or another file or the right sidebar etc

> - the toolbars can now be navigated using arrow keys

Author: ```suggestion
- the toolbars can now be navigated using arrow keys

For more details, see [this post on Jupyter Blog](https://blog.jupyter.org/recent-keyboard-navigation-improvements-in-jupyter-4df32f97628d).
```

> ### Execution History in Notebook

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Execution history in notebook
```

The code from previously executed cells can be used to populate empty cells,
allowing to iterate on code from previous cells or even sessions
(depending on how a specific kernel stores history).

To cycle between history items press <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>Arrow Up</kbd> and  <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>Arrow Down</kbd>.

To enable execution history, go to Settings → Notebook → check the "Kernel history access" checkbox.

This feature was already available in the console in previous releases; it only works with kernels supporting execution history requests.

> To clear the execution history consult the documentation of the kernel you are using (e.g. IPython/ipykernel).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To clear the execution history consult the documentation of the kernel you are using (e.g., IPython/ipykernel).
```

> ### Opening Files from Tracebacks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Opening files from tracebacks
```

Paths to code files detected in the tracebacks returned by kernels on execution error are now turned into links.

> These links will open the corresponding file for edition (if these are in the jupyter root directory)
> or open a read-only preview (if the file is outside of the root directory and the active kernel supports the debugger).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These links will open the corresponding file for editing, if it is in the Jupyter root directory, 
or they will open a read-only preview if the file is outside of the root directory and the active kernel supports the debugger.
```

<img alt="A link to the file with definition of imported module is shown in the traceback" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/krassowski/jupyterlab/changelog-4.1/docs/source/getting_started/changelog_assets/4.1-traceback-links.png" class="jp-screenshot">

> ### Error Indicator in the Table of Contents

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Error indicator in the table of contents
```

> When a cell fails during execution an error indicator will be displayed by the corresponding heading,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a cell fails during execution, an error indicator will be displayed by the corresponding heading,
```

increasing awareness of the notebook state and enabling users to quickly navigate to the cell which requires attention.

> <img alt="Error indicator in the shape of a triangle with exclamation sign (using ⚠ UTF character) shown next to one of the heading in the table of contents panel" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/krassowski/jupyterlab/changelog-4.1/docs/source/getting_started/changelog_assets/4.1-toc-error-indicator.png" class="jp-screenshot">

Author: ```suggestion
<img alt="Error indicator in the shape of a triangle with exclamation sign (using ⚠ UTF character) shown next to one of the headings in the table of contents panel" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/krassowski/jupyterlab/changelog-4.1/docs/source/getting_started/changelog_assets/4.1-toc-error-indicator.png" class="jp-screenshot">
```

### Plugin Manager

Individual plugins can now be disabled or enabled from a new Plugin Manager user interface.
Each extension is composed of one or more plugins, and plugins form the basis of JupyterLab itself,
thus the plugin manager enables more extensive customization of the JupyterLab experience.

<img alt="An example search result in the plugin extension listing" src="https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_images/plugin-manager-search-notebook.png" class="jp-screenshot">

This feature is intended for advanced users and documented in depth in the [documentation](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/extensions.html#managing-plugins-with-plugin-manager).

Administrators may want to [lock specific plugins](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/extensions.html#locking-and-unlocking-plugins) if they are required for any reason; this will prevent users from disabling the plugins via Plugin Manager and remote API calls. The Plugin Manager itself can be [disabled using the CLI](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/extensions.html#enabling-and-disabling-extensions).

> ### Virtual Scrollbar for Notebook (windowed mode)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Virtual scrollbar for notebook in windowed mode
```

> The windowed notebook received an optional scrollbar delineating the active cell and selected cells,
> while allowing to quickly jump to a cell of a given number.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The windowed notebook received an optional scrollbar delineating the active cell and selected cells.
Users can jump to a specific cell.
```

<img alt="Virtual scrollbar shown on the right side of notebook" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/krassowski/jupyterlab/changelog-4.1/docs/source/getting_started/changelog_assets/4.1-virtual-scrollbar.png" class="jp-screenshot">

> To enable this virtual scrollbar go to Settings → Notebook → Windowing mode, choose "full" and click on a hamburger icon (≡) which will appear in the toolbar of the Notebook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable the virtual scrollbar, go to Settings → Notebook → Windowing mode, choose "full", and click on the hamburger icon (≡) which appears in the notebook's toolbar.
```

Virtual scrollbar is considered experimental, please share feedback!

### Notifications

JupyterLab 3.6 added a notification center which so far was only used for announcements and version update notifications (both opt-in).
JupyterLab 4.1 adds two notifications to guide users in potentially confusing situations:

> - when a user attempts to save a read-only document a transient notification suggesting using "save as" is displayed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- when a user attempts to save a read-only document, a transient notification suggesting using "save as" is displayed
```

> - when a user attempts to execute a cell before a slow-starting kernel has initialized a notification is shown to indicate that the cell cannot be yet executed (this is opt-in and needs to be enabled in settings)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- when a user attempts to execute a cell before a slow-starting kernel has initialized, a notification is shown to indicate that the cell cannot be yet executed (this is opt-in and needs to be enabled in settings)
```

> ### Full Notebook Windowing Mode Improvements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Full notebook windowing mode improvements
```

> ## v4.1

Author: ```suggestion
## v4.1

JupyterLab 4.1 includes a number of new features (highlighted below), bug fixes, and enhancements for extension developers. This release is compatible with extensions supporting JupyterLab 4.0, however extension authors are recommended to consult the [Extension Migration Guide](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/extension/extension_migration.html#jupyterlab-4-0-to-4-1) which lists deprecations and changes in the public API.
```

### Custom CSS

Jupyterlab now supports automatic loading of custom CSS.
Themes are the recommended way for customizing the JupyterLab look and feel,
while custom CSS is intended for minor personal adjustments.

To opt in, start JupyterLab with the `--custom-css` flag.
The location of the `custom.css` file is documented in the section on [customizing the user interface](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/interface_customization.html#custom-css).

```{note}
`custom.css` is also available in Jupyter Notebook;

> while similar selectors can be used for components shared between JupyterLab 4.1 and Jupyter Notebook 7.0,
> a different set of selectors was used in Notebook 6 and older versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
while similar selectors can be used for components shared between JupyterLab 4.1 and Jupyter Notebook 7.0,
there was a different set of selectors in Notebook 6 and older versions.
```
